=pod 

=head1 NAME

LibCPV::Categorizer - Class for Hierarchical CPV-Number
Categorizing via L<AI::Categorizer|AI::Categorizer>.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $doc_set = new LibCPV::Categorizer::DocumentSet
  ({
    dirname         => '/path/to/docset/dir'
  });
  $doc_set->add_docs_from_dir;

  my $categorizer = new LibCPV::Categorizer
  ({
    document_set         => $doc_set,
    learner_rootdir      => '/path/to/learner/output/dir'
  });
  $categorizer->train;

=head1 INTRODUCTION

We use L<AI::Categorizer|AI::Categorizer>. Because AI::Categorizer
doesn't do hierarchical categorization we added our own hierarchy
schema based on the semantics of "cpv numbers".

For introduction to cpv numbers see
I<http://simap.eu.int/EN/pub/src/welcome.htm>.

In LibCPV::Categorizer we try to use a consistent wording.
Here are the most important phrases:

B<learner> - An AI::Categorizer instance used to learn (or train).

B<category> - a cpv number, simply an 8-digit-number. CPV numbers are
hierarchically built. The first 2 digits form a common level of
accuracy, then each following digit forms another accuracy level.
We derive the word "group" from that accuracy level definition.

B<document> - a single class transporting the content of a single
textblock that is assigned to zero, one or more categories.

B<document set> - mainly a collection of documents, with additional
functions to work on the set.

B<group> - A group is a set of documents each belonging to a cpv
number that starts with the same first digits of a given precision
(see it as kind of a "cpv prefix").

B<sub group> - A group of documents that have one more digit in
accuracy than a given cpv or document.

How we do training:

We have a learner instance on root level which only knows categories
containing of the first two digits of a cpv. All documents are
considered by that learner. Those two digit accuracy gives
theoretically a maximum of 99 groups, in real live there are only
about 25 groups.

Each group gets its own learner instance which trains only with the
documents in that group and categorizes into (maximally) 9 sub
categories, which is the next digit of the cpv.

So the document set creates a tree of learners.

If all possible cpv numbers possible with 8 digits would be used, the
tree would have one root level learner categorizing into 99
categories, 99 learners at the next level each categorizing into 9
categories, therefore 9 learnes in each of the 99 categories, and in
each following level 9 more learners for each category.

That would result in 100.000.000 (100 Millions) categories or learners
at the last level. In real live there are only about 8000 categories
used so tha last level has maximal those 8000 categories and each
level above some less. 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Z<>

=head2 new

DESCRIPTION

Constructor.

Accepts hashref with following arguments.

ARGUMENTS

I<document_set> - Object of L<DocumentSet|DocumentSet>.

I<learner_rootdir> - Directory under which a directory tree
is built, containing the learn results for each group.


I<current_learner>


I<max_docs_per_learner>


RETURN

__


=head2 restore_learner

DESCRIPTION

__

ARGUMENTS

__

RETURN

__

=head2 init

DESCRIPTION

__

ARGUMENTS

__

RETURN

__

=head2 save_current_learner

DESCRIPTION

__

ARGUMENTS

__

RETURN

__

=head2 train

DESCRIPTION

__

ARGUMENTS

__

RETURN

__

=head1 AUTHOR

  Written 2003 by Steffen Schwigon, Thomas Flasche.

=cut

